Setting states - Mcp/0036 (#3164)
modelica/ModelicaSpecification: chapters/synchronous.tex

This data is tool specific and is typically either defined with a vendor annotation or is given in the simulation environment.
\end{nonnormative}

\subsection{Setting states}\label{setting-states}
In model-based control systems, a natural way of incorporating measurements can be to update discretized model states based on the measurements, see \textcite{OlssonEtAl2017ModelBased}.
Note that \lstinline!reinit! also has another definition, see \cref{reinit}.

A declaration equation can have the form \lstinline!Real x = reinit(expr)!.
The restrictions are that:
\begin{itemize}

> \item It is only legal in a Discretized Continuous-Time partition.

Author: ```suggestion
\item It is only legal in a discretized sub-partition.
```
No title case, and new name.

This data is tool specific and is typically either defined with a vendor annotation or is given in the simulation environment.
\end{nonnormative}

\subsection{Setting states}\label{setting-states}
\begin{nonnormative}
In order to handle measurement in control systems it is necessary to consistently update the discretized states, see \textcite{OlssonEtAl2017ModelBased}.
This replaces the previous discretization methods for specific variables.
\end{nonnormative}

> A declaration equation can have the form \lstinline!Real x=reinit(xs);!

Author: Historically they have been called `xs` in models for some reason. Using `xmeasured` would indicate the intent - but using a generic `expr` may work as well.

The restrictions are that:
\begin{itemize}

> \item It is only legal in a Discretized Continuous-Time partition.

Author: Will need to check if renamed as well.

\item The variable (i.e.,\ \lstinline!x!) must be a scalar or array variable that is a subtype of Real.
\item The right-hand-side must be solely consist of a call to \lstinline!reinit!.

> \item The argument to \lstinline!reinit! (i.e,\ \lstinline!xs!) must be compatible with the variable, and may be an expression.

Reviewer: With a better name for the argument, there is no need to say it can be an expression:
```suggestion
\item The argument to \lstinline!reinit! (i.e,\ \lstinline!expr!) must be compatible with the variable.
```

\end{itemize}

The semantics are:
\begin{itemize}

> \item The variable implicitly always has \lstinline!StateSelect.always!.

Reviewer: Can safely drop _always_:
```suggestion
\item The variable implicitly has \lstinline!StateSelect.always!.
```

> \item The variable participate in the usual index reduction and state selection (where it must be selected as a state).

Reviewer: Grammar:
```suggestion
\item The variable participates in the usual index reduction and state selection (where it must be selected as a state).
```

\item The discretization of the state is equal to the new value \lstinline!xs! during the entire step, instead of using the discretization method in \cref{solver-methods}.

> \item This declaration equation is ignored for the equation count.

Reviewer: Add cross reference:
```suggestion
\item This declaration equation is ignored for the equation count, see \cref{local equation size}.
```

Additionally, that definition should be updated to not count `reinit` declaration equations.

\end{itemize}

\begin{example}

> The example will only shortly demonstrate the semantics; for realistic use-cases see \textcite{OlssonEtAl2017ModelBased}.

Reviewer: Minor wording:
```suggestion
This example shortly demonstrates the semantics; for realistic use-cases, see \textcite{OlssonEtAl2017ModelBased}.
```

\begin{lstlisting}[language=modelica]
model DiscretizedWithReinit
  Real u = sample(time, Clock(Clock(1, 10), "ExplicitEuler"));
  Real x = reinit(u);
  Real y = 2 * x;
equation
  der(y) = u - y;
end DiscretizedWithReinit;
\end{lstlisting}
This is similar to the following equations:
\begin{lstlisting}[language=modelica]
when sample(0.1) then
  u = time;
  x = u; // Discretization - just using input!
  y = 2 * x;
  der_y = time - y;
  der_x = 0.5 * der_y;
\end{lstlisting}
Here we see that \lstinline!x! was selected as a state in favor of \lstinline!y!, despite the latter being differentiated.
Without the \lstinline!reinit!-call the equation for \lstinline!x! would be \lstinline!pre(x) + 0.1 * pre(der_x)!.
Note that replacing the discretization for \lstinline!x! does not change the equations for \lstinline!der_y! and \lstinline!der_x! compared to solver method discretization.
\end{example}

> 
> \begin{nonnormative}
> Note that \lstinline!reinit! also has another definition, see \cref{reinit}.
> \end{nonnormative}

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need this, but I think we need a concise name for this use of `reinit`, to be distinguished from the `reinit`-equation.  Is "`reinit` declaration equation" what we'd like to call it?

If we want a cross reference the other form, I think it should be done in a symmetrical fashion by adding a sentence at the end of the first paragraph of the section.
```suggestion
```

Author: This should now be handled.
